# ENM375-final-project
The brain is the most complex organ in the human body. It produces our every thought, action, memory, feeling, and experience of the world. The average human brain, weighing around 3 pounds, contains a staggering 86 billion neurons, or nerve cells. Each neuron communicates with many other neurons to form circuits and share information. A proper nervous system function involves coordinated action of neurons in many brain regions. This complex organ can malfunction in many ways, leading to disorders that cause an enormous social and economic impact on our normal life. For centuries, scientists have been fascinated by the brain. They aim to understand the mechanism of many neurological disorders, so that they are able to develop new treatments for those patients to improve their quality of life.

Autism spectrum disorder, or ASD, is a developmental disability that can cause significant social, communicative, and behavioral challenges. Signs of ASD begin during early childhood and typically last throughout a person’s life. According to estimates from CDC, about 1 in 54 children has been identified with ASD. However, diagnosing autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can be difficult because there is no medical test, likea blood test, to diagnose the disorder. Doctors look at the child’s developmental history and behavior to make a diagnosis. In recent years, with the advances in neuroimaging, there is tremendous opportunity to use new technologies to understand and determine the functional and structural changes in human brain that might be associated with ASD.

In this project, I took my growing knowledge of biostatistics principles and applied it to analyze the brain imaging data acquired from healthy humans, as well as people with Autism Spectrum Disorder. The data used was collected using fMRI, a research and clinical tool that measures the activity of individual brain regions by detecting changes associated with blood flow. I used this informationto estimate the strength of communication between brain regions.
